# Troubleshooting

A lot of the technology and ideas were very new to me when I started this so there were some mistakes that I made along the way. However, these mistakes taught me important troubleshooting techniques that I will carry with me into my future endeavors. 
The first issue I ran into was after enabling IP routing on the switch with my old router, it ended up breaking the network and I had to learn what broke, how it broke and how to fix it. I learned that the best way to start troubleshooting this was actually from within the switches CLI. I first started by pinging all of the VLANs to ensure that those were all working correctly. I had no packet loss when doing this so the next step was pinging the router's gateway address. I did this to make sure that traffic from the switch was being received by the router. This also returned with no packet loss so the issue was not on the switch itself. I decided to plug my computer into VLAN 1 on the switch, which at the time was configured for troubleshooting, and tried to ping the gateway on the switch. This worked, verifying again that the switch was not the problem.The next step I took was pinging the DNS server 8.8.8.8, and I actually received 100% packet loss from this. So I knew that the issue was on traffic returning through the router, which narrowed down my troubleshooting slightly. I had two main issues I was deciding between which were DNS and DHCP. I decided to try and tackle DNS first by removing my raspberry pi from the switch and changing the DNS server on my router to 8.8.8.8. I tried pinging it again and still received 100% packet loss which left me with only DHCP. The first thing I did was check my IP address with ipconfig on the command line and found that I had an APIPA address (169.x.x.x.) which verified that DHCP was the problem and it was specifically the traffic going from the router to the switch that was causing the issue. I did some research and learned that netgear routers are not able to provide VLAN tagging for L3 switches and that by enabling IP routing on the switch with this router it essentially broke its logic and took down the internet. After I learned this I disconnected the switch from the router, factory reset the router to bring it back online and ordered a router that is capable of handling VLAN tagging, the mikrotik hEX.
I learned while studying for the CCNA  that pinging the DNS server would not actually have tested DNS properly, rather it tests for internet connectivity. If I had wanted to test DNS I would’ve needed to ping an actual domain such as google.com. Another important lesson I learned was that my steps during this troubleshooting were wrong, while I did ping 8.8.8.8 a failure there should’ve immediately indicated a NAT/network issue. However, a successful ping of 8.8.8.8 and a failure of google.com immediately indicates DNS as the internet is reachable but the (valid) domain is not.
